enh(article): add dbee (#1)
mmngreco/mmngreco.github.io-source: content/articles/2021-08-01-dbee-nvim.md

# My first vim plugin!

> Have you ever had the necessity of check a query while you are writing a python

Reviewer: Have you ever had the necessity to check a query while you are writing a python

wrapper? If so, this post is for you.

Many times I had the necessity of checking a query while I'm writing a function,

> debugging or testing it. That's why I wrote my first vim (well, actually a

Reviewer: Many times I have had the necessity of checking a query while I'm writing,
debugging or testing a function.

nvim) plugin called [`dbee.nvim`](https://github.com/mmngreco/dbee.nvim).

> ## My using case

Reviewer: ## My use case

I have a virtual environment with `SQLAlchemy` and others Python dependencies
and then I want to check a query from my project. So, I have to open `DBeaver`
or another SQL client copy-paste the query there and see the result. This

> process is very annoying.

Reviewer: I have a virtual environment with `SQLAlchemy` and others Python dependencies,
and then I want to check a query from my project. So, I have to open `DBeaver`,
or another SQL client, copy-paste the query there and see the result. This 
process can be very annoying.

> Why I have to open an external program when I already had all what I need in my

Reviewer: Why do I have to open an external program when I already have all that I need in my

virtual environment?

The idea is define a `engine` using `SQLAlchemy` using a connection string, and
then through `pandas` fetch the data using that engine. Pretty simple, isn't

> it?

Reviewer: The idea is to define an `engine` using `SQLAlchemy` with a connection string, and
then through `pandas` fetch the data using that engine. Pretty simple, isn't
it?

## Installation

If you want to use it, add the following in your vimrc:

```
Plug 'mmngreco/dbee.nvim'
```

I'm using the following maps:

```
vnoremap <C-q> :DBeeQuery<cr>
vnoremap <C-c><C-c> :DBeeSetConnection<cr><cr>
```

## Example

> Suppose we are writing the following python function:

Reviewer: Let's suppose that we are writing the following python function:

Author: This is a good one, I realized that I have problems guessing when I should omit "that".

```python
def get_titles():
    cn_str = "sqlite:////home/mgreco/gitlab/mmngreco/dbee.nvim/tests/chinook.db"
    engine = sa.create_engine(cn_str)
    conn = engine.connect()
    qry = """
          SELECT title
          FROM albums;
          """
    out = pd.read_sql(qry, conn)
    return out
```

> We can setup our connection by going to `cn_str` line, selecting the content

Author: ```suggestion
We can setup our connection by going to the line where `cn_str` is and select the content
```

inside the quotes and executing `:'<,'>DBeeSetConnection`. This will print out
the following message: `Configurated
sqlite:////home/mgreco/gitlab/mmngreco/dbee.nvim/tests/chinook.db`, after that

> we are ready to make queries to the database.

Author: ``
```suggestion
we are ready to make queries to that database.
```

Now, we are ready to select the query inside the quotes and call to
`:'<,'>DBeeQuery`. This should open a new temporary buffer with the connection

> string, the query used and the output on it. You can easily close the buffer by

Reviewer: string, the selected query and the output fetched from it. You can easily close the buffer by
